---
layout: post
game: true
title: "CHUCHEL"
date: 2018-04-07 14:45:00 +0200
rating: 8
steam_link: http://store.steampowered.com/app/711660/CHUCHEL/
tags:
- point & click
- puzzle
playtime: 2h
---

Beautiful and unique short "sketch" comedy game.

I love games from Amanita Design - you definitely heard about Samorost games, Machinarium or Botanicula. They are always beautiful, with a great art style, sound layer and music. They are always so unique, with great atmosphere, driven with basically no text - which immerses you in the world a lot.

CHUCHEL is no exception here. Art style is so colorful and pleasing, and is connected with a really abstract and weird world. But what the game is about? Well, it's definitely an experiment - but a good one I'll say! You're a "cute" little creature called Chuchel - and you love cherries (yes, the fruits). But someone is messing around with you - teasing you and stealing your cherry all the time. And the main theme is trying to get your cherry back!

Why so vague? Why "main theme"? Is there no story here? That's the thing - basically, all levels are very loosely connected and independent. They are a mixture of puzzles and sketches - some levels require to solve some puzzles, by interacting with things, but some are rather comedy sketches, where there is no real puzzle, but to discover all the interactions. And I need to say - the comedy bits are just laughable. They are so adorable and in great style, that they just make you smile. It's so unique, that probably the best way to feel it, is to check out some trailers with fragments of the play.

It's pretty short, only 2 hours long, but gives a lot of fun and enjoyable art and atmosphere. Totally recommended! CHERRY!
