---
layout: post
game: true
title: "ABZÛ"
date: 2018-01-28 14:00:00 +0100
rating: 8
steam_link: http://store.steampowered.com/app/384190/ABZU/ 
tags:
- atmospheric
playtime: 2h
---

A chill and beautiful atmospheric game, about exploring the ocean depths.

Atmospheric games are a specific bunch - there are even people raging (for whatever reason) that "THIS ARE NOT GAMES". Well, they are, but serving a different purpose.

Abzû is one of those games - simple gameplay mechanics, but wrapped up in beautiful design, atmosphere and amazing soundtrack. While playing it, right from the start I thought about Journey - another similar game. Here, we are exploring the ocean depths, swimming amongst all kind of fishes and other sea creatures. Admiring all the flora, cave structures and fish formations.

What's the point of the game? There is actually no text in the game, no explanations what to do whatsoever - but by exploring, you learn how to make your way through. This is what shows that the game is designed well - I never felt lost, even without anything holding my hand and telling me exactly what to do.

For me, the main feature of the game is getting you relaxed - the exploration and observing the undersea life is really chilling. All of that is also accompanied by great music, changing to the situation when needed. It's a nice art experience, something to clear your mind and calm down a bit. Of course, unless you are afraid of water (no Grant, there are no sharks in the game, I promise..) ;)