---
layout: post
game: true
title: "Bound"
date: 2018-02-03 14:40:00 +0100
rating: 8
custom_link: https://www.playstation.com/en-us/games/bound-ps4/
custom_link_text: Bound on playstation.com
tags:
- atmospheric
- platformer
playtime: 2h
---

Mesmerizing atmospheric game, telling a story in an abstract, platformer world.

One of more interesting exclusives on PS4. Designed with VR in mind, but works without it as well.

So what is this game? Well, technically it's a platformer, with some story background. But probably the most characteristic thing is the unique world and atmosphere. In beautifully designed world, which is made from some pretty simple shapes and colours, but also being very abstract, you are traversing as a... ballet dancer? I know, it's quite random. But the actual creation of ballet moves (and actual dancing) incorporated into gameplay - no, in all the moves you make - it's really mesmerizing. Her moves are so authentic and fluid, that it's a beautiful thing to see.

But what's the purpose? What is the story about? Well, all is given in a form, that leaves a lot for you to tell. Essentially, it seems that travelling through this imaginary world is just a way to relive some situations from your life. When finishing a "level", you are also presented with a stop-motion scene, representing some event from your life... I don't want to spoil the details, but the story is about family, separation and hard decisions.

Although short, and not very gameplay demanding, it's a wonderful thing - I was amazed by the ballet moves incorporated into movement, which you fully control, and the beauty of simple shaped world, accompanied with wonderful music.