---
layout: post
title: "Hob"
date: 2018-01-04 19:10:00 +0100
rating: 8
steam_link: http://store.steampowered.com/app/404680/Hob/
tags:
- platformer
- puzzle
- action
playtime: ~8h
---

Great platformer, with a lots of puzzles and an interesting world.

I got interested by it because of the visuals (and because I love puzzle platformers) - the art style is really interesting and beautiful. The world creation is also a peculiar mix - lot's of green and cute creators, mixed up with some "ancient tech", mechanical apparatus and electricity. And on top of that - infested.

Yeah, that's the main thing. The beautiful and mysterious land is infested with some kind of disease - poisonous plants and growths all around, mutated animals hunting regular ones. What is happening? You're about to find out and try to save it.

To not spoil, you will get a mechanical arm from your befriended robot. You will use it for both combat and puzzle solving. While traversing the land, you will also upgrade it with new powers, to help you get into more places.

Your robot friend will show you where to go on the map - but how to get there, you need to figure out yourself. That's the core of the game really - find a way how to get into places. Use your abilities, jumping, fighting and activating weird, ancient mechanical things. That part of the game is really awesome, even if sometimes it's quite hard to figure out where to go and what to do - it's really satisfying.

While travelling, you will have to fight "the bad guys" - lots of creatures that seems to be also infested with that disease that's spreading through the land. Combat is quite interesting, with dodging, combination of jump attacks and using your glove abilities. It's not very complicated, but with enemies having armour, shields and different attacks, it's getting somewhat challenging.

There are also a lot of collectibles and upgradeables around - to improve your sword, unlock new abilities, increase your health and energy and others. They are marked on the map, if you are around, but it's always a challenge to get to them.

Travel the land, reach difficult places, mangle with ancient mechanisms and get rid of the infestation in this wordless land (yes, there is no text in game, although the robots are speaking some made-up language to you). Definitely recommended for fans of puzzle platformers!